What are the main methods of selling?
Well, now we will look at the sales stimulation.
Probably the biggest and most basic block,
because today we found out that the BTL methods,
the methods of selling, are more and more active,
more active in the market,
bring more and more results,
because the situation in the market is developing in this way.
Let's see what are the main methods of selling stimulation.
Here is a chain of goods from the manufacturer to the buyer.
And there we see several links.
After the manufacturer, we have a distributor,
if it is not there, maybe there is a dealer,
and the next is the wholesale,
and the next is the trading link,
which brings our goods to the buyer.
So, the best way to stimulate the sale is to do it in a complex way,
starting from the manufacturer,
starting from the company itself,
and ending with the company that offers your goods to the market,
that is, with the trading point.
If you have at least one link,
especially when it comes to the export of new goods to the market,
then the whole company may not have the proper effect or fail,
because by stimulating one or two of the chains,
our chain does not exist, it breaks.
Someone from the companies that present our goods to the market is not motivated.
Since there is no motivation for sales,
they just do not do it,
or do not do it the way we would like.
Spending one or another means, we do not get the result,
because there is no complex impact on the market.
What are the main methods of stimulation?
The first is the trade marketing programs,
which are aimed at the trading link.
The dealer, distributors, wholesale sellers,
and retail trading networks or shops that offer goods to the market are related to the trading link.
The second is direct marketing,
which we will definitely talk about today.
These are merchandising events that are held at trading points.
They are also related to the stimulation of sales.
Competent merchandising allows you to increase sales from 80% to 300%.
This is a very large resource in the hands of the company.
And, of course, another method is consumer promotion.
These are events aimed at the end consumer,
because they stimulate the trading link.
We provide you with products on shelves,
but we will not encourage our customer to buy our product.
Therefore, of course, with a complex impact and impact on the end consumer,
it is just as important and necessary.
Let's first consider the goals.
The main goals that pursue the stimulation of sales.
The first goal or group of goals, the most important one,
is, of course, to increase sales volumes,
increase sales volumes or accelerate the company's product turnover.
This group has a list of certain goals,
which is presented on your slide and in your workbooks.
What goals can be achieved by stimulating this group?
The first goal is to introduce a new product to the market.
This is the main goal.
The second goal is to sell the product, for example,
at the end of the season or with a delayed shelf life.
We can also set such a goal here.
The third goal is to accelerate the purchase,
that is, to buy a particular product more often
or increase the volume.
Previously, we bought a certain amount,
now we want to buy twice as much, for example.
Remember, for example, shampoo.
Previously, it was said that shampoo was intended only to wash the head once or twice a week.
Now we see that the bottle says that shampoo is for daily use.
This is just an increase in the volume of purchases.
That is, we buy shampoo much more than before.
This is how you can give an example with any product.
Okay, the next group of goals that we will consider.
The next group of goals is to implement the communication pyramid.
What is the communication pyramid?
When we see a product, we go through several stages.
The first is awareness.
We just learn about this product, that there is such a product.
But we don't know what kind of product it is yet.
The next stage is information.
When we study more deeply the information about this product,
we learn how it can be used, why, for what, and so on.
The next stage is attitude to the brand.
We have already looked at what kind of product it is,
and we develop our attitude, positive or negative.
After that, we only make a decision about the purchase.
Will we buy this product or not?
What are the goals for this group?
The first goal is, of course, getting acquainted with the company.
Because first we need to know about the company.
The next goal is getting acquainted with the product,
which we can put to a certain number of consumers.
One of the goals can be to make a trial purchase.
Sometimes it is very important when we introduce a new product to the market.
First, our buyers should try this product,
and then understand whether they need it or not in the future
in order to make a second purchase.
Of course, deepening the knowledge about the product
can also be a goal when we tell about its properties.
And, of course, increasing the number of visitors
to a particular point of sale can also be a goal.
The goals that are described here
can be used when planning events for promotion,
only adding numbers and deadlines.
These are ready-made goals that will help you
to determine what you want in this market.
And now we will look at two more groups of goals.
The next group of goals is product positioning
and positioning.
This group of goals is used when we plan to launch a new brand
and make a future brand out of it.
Then, of course, it is important to us
how we will position our product,
what the buyers will think about it,
and how we will confirm the positioning that we offer them for this product.
What goals can be here?
Of course, attracting customers to a certain segment.
Because we do positioning for each segment separately.
Remember, we said that each segment
presents its own requirements for the product.
Based on these requirements,
we determine the positioning of the product.
The next point is, of course,
to consolidate the image of the product with the knowledge of the buyer.
This is how various support actions are held
to remind our product,
to remind our image,
our advertising slogan,
our product idea,
so that the buyers have the so-called knowledge without a hint.
For example, you are asked
what beer brands you like.
And you call those brands without a hint
the ones that are produced by the company that conducts this survey.
Thus, this is the knowledge without a hint.
This is what all manufacturers want to achieve.
Because this is the main key to success.
You are known, and, accordingly, some part of it is bought.
And another group of goals that we will consider
is to maintain and increase the market share.
In short, there are two goals that can be set in this subgroup.
The first is to maintain the market share.
Usually, this goal is set in the high season,
because all companies hold promotions,
and we need to maintain at least our share,
or maybe increase it,
and take away from the competitor part of our buyers.
And another goal is to switch
the buyers from the competitor's trademark
to our trademark.
This must be done very carefully,
but nevertheless, many companies do it,
and many achieve success.
Well, we have considered the main groups of goals,
and you can use them, as I said,
by setting numbers and deadlines.
And now let's look at the main tools
for stimulating sales or the main tools of trade marketing.
We will start with considering the tools
for stimulating sales.
The first is, of course,
various discounts and bonuses
that we offer to our clients.
Discounts can be both volumetric, seasonal,
and holiday, and for a comprehensive purchase,
and for encouraging the sale of a new product,
whatever we do to make our client
interested in working with us.
But there are also bonuses.
Bonuses often work even better than discounts,
because a bonus is a certain bonus
for completing a task,
and by setting a correct task,
we get a very effective result.
What are the bonuses?
We can offer bonuses for increasing the distribution,
for the sale of a certain top assortment,
for the execution of a set plan,
which, of course, needs to be pursued.
It can be a team bonus,
which is given for the execution,
for example, of a certain plan
to your clients,
which will encourage the activity
of all employees, all team members.
Actually, bonuses are considered
more effective than discounts today.
Nevertheless, you can't avoid discounts.
This is a standard tool for stimulating sales.
Let's consider two more tools.
These are special events and merchandising,
which we have already talked about.
What do special events have to do with them?
Special events are the most common
for companies to participate in.
Naturally, you need to prepare for them
very well, precisely, and set tasks
and monitor their execution.
Special events are not only an image moment,
although, of course,
you can't remove the image moment.
An event cannot give an instant increase
in sales volumes,
but an increase in the client base,
which is a goal for the company
to increase sales or promote new products.
The next special event is
a presentation of new products,
training inside the company of your clients,
which must be held
in order to maintain the information level,
knowledge of your product,
loyalty to the company, awareness.
The same way,
this event is held by the company
in an obligatory order.
There are also various professional conferences,
press conferences,
various trainings, seminars,
which are dedicated to your product
or are connected with your product.
The next tool is merchandising,
which, as I said,
allows you to increase sales
from 80% to 300%.
This is only in my practice.
I had more numbers.
Nevertheless, what does merchandising allow?
It allows you to make a competent product layout,
to present POS materials,
which will inform the client
about the events,
discounts, bonuses,
information about the new product.
These are various lottery competitions
held at the sales place,
at the trading point.
This is advertising at the sales place,
which will also help to draw attention
to your product.
These are sales consultants,
who will certainly increase sales
of your product several times
if they work competently and professionally.
We will talk about this later.
Well, let's consider the main objects
of the impact of trade marketing programs.
Who do we influence and who do we work for?
Here is the whole chain in front of you.
As I said,
the main objects of the chain are your own staff.
You need to start with them.
Especially if you introduce a new product.
Focus on this.
Not a single trading staff of a company,
even if it is very loyal to the management of the company,
will not be pleased with the appearance of a new product.
Because it is difficult to sell it,
and you should pay special attention to this.
If you introduce a new product to the market,
you will lose your own trading staff.
Yes, they get a bonus or a percentage
of the sales volume they have made.
But this is not all.
One thing is to sell a well-known product,
which does not require any special effort
to pay for its own cost.
The buyers themselves ask for it,
they buy it, and our sales managers
will successfully implement the product
that they sell themselves.
And they will not pay attention
to your new product.
This is a problem from the point of view
that it should be presented correctly,
positioned correctly,
and the competitors should tell
about the competitive advantages of a new product.
Otherwise, how can you convince a buyer
to take it and try it?
After all, the buyer also has a risk.
He invests funds that are not known
whether they will return quickly.
And fast turnover is one of the tasks
of any buyer.
Therefore, by putting all links
of your chain at risk
when you introduce a new product,
we must take into account
that our sales managers
will play a key role here.
And when you introduce a new product,
you must start working with them.
Then, when your product
is already in the stable line,
it is not necessary to do this.
Sometimes you can hold
supportive events
in the form of contests,
various bonuses,
in order to remind
what needs to be done.
But you will not need
constant stimulation.
It is only necessary at the very first stage.
The next person
who enters this chain
is a branch network or a distributor,
depending on what your company has.
Maybe you have branches,
maybe not, but in any case
there are intermediaries
who must be stimulated in the same way.
Because the same law works here.
What is already known
or is already known,
or is sold well.
Therefore, in order to reduce risks,
we give discounts, we give bonuses,
we come up with various programs.
And this is justified.
Why do those companies
that work in the market
and are not holders of the brand
have to bear certain risks?
We must pay for these risks.
Because we are the initiators
of a particular process,
a particular product
and a particular product.
The entire trading chain,
which is indicated here on the slide,
must necessarily think through
the whole chain of sales stimulation.
Otherwise, as I said,
when any of these links
fall out,
you will not achieve
a comprehensive result
and there will be no synergy
from your actions.
Let's look at the main methods of stimulation.
They are divided into two main groups.
The first one we will consider
is the price methods.
And the first of the price methods
is our favorite seasonal discount,
which we give.
Almost any company does this.
As I said,
in the high season,
the discount is additional
in order to capture or retain
its share of the market.
And in the low season,
when there is practically no sale
or they sharply decrease,
the discount is used quite often.
The next discount is the holiday discount,
which is also particularly popular.
Our clients, our customers
are waiting for seasonal discounts.
Remember the New Year's sales.
Yes, we give discounts,
but what is the turnover we get?
After all, according to the statistics,
sales in the New Year increase by 250%
compared to the average sales volume
per month.
Therefore, such a discount is justified.
We earn due to the turnover.
If your product has a certain shelf life,
if it has a seasonal direction,
of course, a discount allows us
to keep a balance
on the stock of our products.
The next discount is
a loss leader.
What is this discount?
Remember such things.
You are driving along the highway
and suddenly there is an advertisement
and it is written
that there is a crossroad
in the shopping network
and today a watermelon
costs 3 rubles per kilogram.
And you think,
how great, if a watermelon
costs so cheaply,
then everything else is probably
at a similar price.
And so we get hooked.
This discount is called
or this program is called a loss leader.
When we take the product
and the leader in sales,
in turnover,
the most popular in this period,
we set the price to the cost,
and we earn on other products,
because we set higher prices
on other products.
This is a very well-working method
and almost all buyers
come across it.
The next discount is
a discrimination discount.
What is this discount?
Remember when you come to the museum
and what you see there.
Children are free,
citizens of the Russian Federation
are free,
and the price is 500 rubles.
Here is a discrimination discount.
When you set the price
for the same product
for different categories of consumers,
such a system
works not only in museums.
Now it is very active,
for example, in the services
of air transport,
when, for example, young people
under 25 years old
are given a discount on a ticket
and you can buy
two tickets back and forth
at the price of one.
These are very good programs
that work great
and are very actively used abroad.
The next discount is
a discount for a large volume.
This discount is also standard,
as well as seasonal,
and is used by almost all companies
that work in the market.
When we set certain turnover
and thus stimulate
the sale of a product,
the discount is standard,
is used often,
and works in one way or another.
The next discount is a discount on time.
Remember, in stores
a happy hour,
or, for example,
from the 1st to the 15th
there will be such a discount,
and from the 15th to the 30th
there will be less.
Thus, you are encouraged
to buy a particular product
Distributor companies
use such a discount
before New Year's sales.
They usually say
that in November there will be a discount
to unload supplies,
to unload their logistics,
so that, for example,
most companies buy in November,
and not in December.
This is how you can use this discount.
The next discount is discount or gift cards.
Well, probably,
many of us now have different cards,
discount or gift cards.
In any store it already works.
In some stores,
loyalty programs work.
But this is not a price method.
But there is still a discount.
Most often it is a deposit.
And we use it one way or another.
This makes us
return to certain stores,
which means it works.
But one more thing.
This is a sale of loans.
This is a very developing area.
There are a lot of consumer loans now.
It is even difficult to name a product
that is not being sold on credit.
Almost everything.
As long as you are able to pay a loan,
as long as you have a good credit history,
if you have it,
and as long as you are ready to buy on credit.
Otherwise,
this is a very good method
to stimulate the sale of your product.
For example, you sell some equipment.
Of course, you will immediately increase
sales if a person makes an offer.
You don't need to pay now.
You take the product,
but you will pay later.
This is very good for our customers.
And now let's look at
the main non-price methods.
They are just as popular
as the price ones,
but have a slightly different nature.
We do not play at the price,
but play on various gifts, bonuses,
and so on. Let's see.
The first method is
credit cards.
This is not a discount.
For example,
you come to a store where men's underpants are sold.
You buy one or two of them.
And you are given virtual money
with the amount written on it.
For example,
200, 300, 500 rubles.
And you are told that the next time
you buy another pair of underpants,
you can use this card
as a credit.
This amount will be taken as a credit
as internal money of the client.
This is the same method that makes
the client come back.
Free samples or sampling
work very well
when new goods are brought to the market.
When you offer your products
to try in small versions,
in miniatures,
samples are given
or free samples that the client
tries and decides for himself
whether this product is interesting
or not. In fact,
free samples can be used
when we give a free product
or a so-called free product
in quotes,
from money.
If the company
buys a certain amount of products,
then so many free samples
are attached to it.
This works very well
because it allows the first company
to try the product itself,
the second company
to sell this product,
and the third company
to give it to someone
to gain loyalty.
There are many ways
to use this data.
It works very well
for both end users
and for the trading link.
I highly recommend it.
The next method
is a gift.
You give a gift
to a certain product,
a necessary thing for the client.
The word necessary is the key word
because if this gift is not necessary,
for example,
you may remember
that a year or two ago
there was an advertisement
about a cap as a gift
when buying an apartment.
It was funny, but everyone remembered it.
However, the gift was completely useless.
So, please,
evaluate what kind of gift you have,
whether it will be useful.
And one more point.
The cost of the gift
is more than 30% of the product's cost.
Otherwise, your customers
will ask
why such expensive gifts
are given.
We all understand that it is a cost.
So, be careful with the amount of the gift.
The gift should not be more expensive
than the product itself.
The next method is a bonus
that we give for the performance of a certain bonus.
For example,
your distributor sold
a certain number of products
and got a certain number of new customers
that you planned for him.
You can pay him a bonus
for this,
for which he will be very grateful to you,
of course,
and will continue
working with you as a partner.
The bonus can be not only money,
but it can be
various gifts,
for example,
trips
or some interesting things
that will be interesting
to the customer.
For example, I can give you
an example of a wine company
that held a competition
among...
The next point is
the competition and games.
The wine company held a competition
for the month of Argentine wine.
It was three years ago,
but the competition was very interesting
and inexpensive.
They held a competition for the best wholesalers
and the number of winners
was not one, not two,
but as many as 15.
The winning companies
were offered
to go, for example,
to a trip
to a competition
in Formula 1,
or to the World Cup,
or to the Brazilian Carnival.
Try to find such ideas
that will be interesting to the customer.
Not just a trip to Turkey.
It's also pleasant,
but it's something interesting
that you won't go to
very often.
Such unusual offers
make you participate
in such competitions
and games
and fight for such prizes.
The next point is
the increased warranty period.
We have an increased warranty
for this product,
and the customer likes it.
You can't ruin yourself
with this product,
because it should be of high quality
and meet the requirements.
If you get a return on the product,
you won't be able to cope
with such a high flow.
Very carefully,
increase the warranty period.
Although it works great
for the customer.
The next method is the lottery.
It's also a good method
because it's inexpensive.
The winner of the lottery
is only one or two clients.
Of course, the costs are small,
but there are many participants.
But the lottery has one feature.
You must register it
in the state authorities.
If the prize amount
is more than 3,000 rubles,
your client will have to pay taxes.
So be careful with this.
You can get a fine
if you use it improperly.
Another idea,
another method is
joining a club.
There are many clubs now.
There are clubs of different interests,
clubs of the same brand,
clubs of football fans,
clubs of famous personalities.
You can work with all these clubs
in terms of promotion
of the product.
And the second method
is to create your own club
where your clients will be interested.
Many online stores
have announced
reading clubs.
They give discounts
to the products.
It's interesting for people.
Not everyone can join it.
The exclusivity of the club
is determined by the fact
that not everyone can join it,
but only a person or a company
that is determined
by special criteria
that you will determine.
The membership in the club
should be interesting and exclusive.
Otherwise it will be not a club,
but a gathering of people
and companies.
And it won't be interesting.
Another method is to attract
a friend.
Many companies now
make loyalty programs
and give you discount cards.
It's great,
because we increase
the number of potential clients.
It's nice to give a discount card
to a friend,
even if he hasn't participated
in a certain promotion.
It will encourage him
to participate in a certain event
and buy a certain product.
If you have such an opportunity,
I recommend you to use it.
We have discussed the main methods
of stimulation.
But since there are so many of them,
how to make the right choice?
What should we pay attention to?
In your lecture material
I will explain the method of stimulation.
It will help you to decide
what you need.
I want to draw your attention
to the consideration of this algorithm.
All methods of stimulation
are divided into two groups.
They are called
solid and selective stimulation.
Solid stimulation
is when we stimulate everyone.
All our clients,
all our buyers.
For example,
if you buy something
this week,
you will get a discount.
Selective stimulation
is when we stimulate
not everyone.
For example, every 10th client will get a discount.
Or a competition.
Several people win in the competition.
This is also a selective method.
What are the main differences?
Selective stimulation gives a very good optimization
of expenses and budget.
You don't need to stimulate everyone
to optimize your expenses.
In the absence of money
this strategy
is very beneficial
and interesting.
It allows you to maintain
the interest in the product
and does not make you spend a lot of money.
Then you will follow the algorithm
and follow the arrows.
Everything is clear there.
As a result,
you will have a choice
not of 15 methods of stimulation
but of 3-4.
According to the budget
you can choose one method
and move on.
Develop the mechanics
and develop the stimulation program.
What are the main tools?
I would like to talk to you
and focus on the most effective
from a practical point of view.
Of course,
discounts for volume
are the most popular among our intermediaries.
Because discounts
allow them to earn money.
The main goal of intermediaries
is to earn money,
not to sell or promote a new product
to the market.
Earning money is their main goal.
Discount allows them to do it.
Therefore, discount is the most popular
and the most basic method.
Another method
that concerns finances
is the payment delay or payment conditions.
Each company has different conditions.
Even on each market
there is a different payment practice.
However, by giving a payment delay
you can credit the client
which is also a financial method
of stimulating sales.
Because you need to invest
money now or a little later.
For each company
it is an important point.
As in the case of the credit system.
Bonus for the implementation
of the established plan.
I would like to say
that bonuses work well.
The only thing is that you need to make a clear and feasible plan.
If you make an unfulfilled plan,
your bonuses will not work.
Yes, you will save money
and you will not pay bonuses.
But the plan will not be fulfilled.
You will not achieve the results you want.
The next method
is a competition between companies.
A very good method.
It works great.
It costs a little.
But the only thing you need
is a clear report
which company has fulfilled what indicators.
And moreover,
they all need to see
who is in what place.
Periodically you need to send this information to them.
To have a reason
for stimulation.
Not just every company
was cooking in its own pot,
but saw what the other one was doing.
Then they will have a reason
to strive higher, further and do more.
By participating in this competition.
This is the main point
that you should not forget.
The next method
is to provide a free product.
I have already said that
it is a very good method of stimulation.
Especially when you bring a new product to the market.
Because it works great.
And we will repeat
that it is loyalty,
the ability to sell
and the ability to give a gift.
Therefore,
if you practice this method,
it works very well.
Two more methods
that we will discuss.
The first is the payment of shelves
to the retail.
If you work with retail companies,
you provide funds to your intermediary
to pay for shelves in the retail.
Helping him to develop
his business
and sell your product.
This is a very good method
of stimulation.
But there is a subtlety.
You need to have a strict control.
You need to have a strict control
of the shelf production
and strict control of payment.
The recommendation is
to sign a three-way contract
between the retail and the distributor.
So that the retail
understands where the money comes from.
And the money should come from you.
Because you pay for the presentation
of your product on the shelves of the stores.
And another method
is the training of presentations.
The truth is that now the situation is such
that many intermediaries refuse to train.
They say,
we have a lot of suppliers
and everyone wants to learn,
everyone wants to do something.
What to do in this situation?
After all, it is necessary to inform about the product.
And if the retailers do not know anything
about your product,
they will not be able to sell it normally.
The way out is as follows.
Conduct training
and call it not training on your product,
but training
on the basis of the sales method
using our product as an example.
Or training
on the basis of merchandising
using our product as an example.
This will be correct, this will be good.
You will not only teach,
but you will also show it
on your examples.
And actually you will be allowed
to the managers of sales
who sell your product.
These are the basic methods
of stimulating intermediaries.
We have already discussed the pros and cons.
And I would like to add
to the discounts,
because they are the most popular.
You have a very large list of discounts
in your educational materials.
I have collected them
from different companies.
Maybe you will add it
to those that were not discounted.
But nevertheless,
pay attention.
What can you do?
You can select those
discounts that are already
practiced in your company,
and those that are not practiced
are your potential.
You can apply them from time to time.
Remember we said
that in order for a company not to get used to discounts,
you need to constantly change the conditions.
Then your intermediaries
will not know
what you will come up with tomorrow.
And they will not expect
the next discount, the next bonus,
and so on.
I recommend you to familiarize yourself
with this list
and apply
certain things that are very useful
and very effective
when selling products.
I would like to talk
about a few more points
in the framework of working with intermediaries.
There are two methods
that help us establish
a closer relationship with intermediaries.
The first one is called
rebate.
In Russian,
if you look at the essence of this method,
you can say that it is a retro bonus
that is often not used by the company.
What is the meaning of it?
It is a return on investment
for buying a product.
A rebate program is a return
on investment
for a certain amount of money.
For example, you say that your product costs
1,000 rubles, but if you buy
a batch of 1,000 pieces,
we will give you a 15% discount.
That is, we will return 150 rubles
from each product.
But this will only happen if you buy
a certain amount.
The client says, yes, I will buy it,
but I am not ready to do it right away
because it is immediate investment.
He says, I will do it
within three months or a year.
But if you give him a discount in advance,
where is the guarantee
that he will buy it from you?
Yes, he signed the contract,
yes, he promised you,
he will definitely do it.
In the end, he will tell you, well, he could not.
What will you do with it?
Such a rebate discount or retro bonus
is a guarantee that
he will either buy
this turnover
or you will not pay him
extra money.
And this discount that you will have to pay him
will work for you for a whole year.
That is, it will be money in the turnover of your company.
This is also a plus.
And, in fact, at the end of the period
when the client buys the entire batch
that he promised,
you return this amount to him
without cash,
which you promised,
150 rubles from each product.
And this is either a retro bonus or a rebate program,
whatever you call it.
What is interesting,
in Russia this is mainly used on the trade channel,
and in the West,
such a system is very actively used
by retail stores, retail networks.
For example,
you buy some product,
and you get a part of the amount on your card.
This amount as money
is on this card.
You can return to this store and buy something
in the same store,
but you cannot take it with money.
Thus, you are forced to return to this store
one way or another,
become a more loyal,
constant client to it.
The next point I would like to talk about
is the so-called MDF funds.
Market Development Fund.
What are these funds?
You agree with your intermediaries
literally on the following.
If they buy a certain product
in a certain amount,
you give them an additional discount.
But you do not give them a discount with money.
You accumulate this discount
on your account.
A virtual account is created
at the client and accumulated.
The sales manager must follow this account.
Why?
Because the sales manager
must follow the sales manager.
What will this money be used for?
To promote the product
on the client's territory.
What usually happens?
Our intermediaries do not have money
to promote our product.
They are not very interested in this.
They say, promote yourself if you need to.
And we are interested in promoting the product.
So, we offer an additional discount,
accumulate the amount.
If this amount is accumulated,
then the intermediary can use it
as a marketing budget
to promote our product
on their market.
He promotes not only our product,
but also his company.
Therefore, in any case,
he should be interested.
According to the rules,
you should say that you do not pay for this with money.
And one more condition that can be made.
If a client develops
or comes up with a very interesting idea
or a good program,
you can add your funds
to this fund
so that there is enough money for the implementation of this program.
I will give an example.
In June, I participated in a conference
held by furniture companies.
Companies for the production of office furniture.
One of the companies
is practicing
the creation of such funds.
They introduced this practice
two years ago
and summed up the first results.
There was a very interesting example.
A company for the production of office chairs.
It has distributors.
One of the distributors
also accumulated such a fund
and decided to make a program
to promote expensive office chairs.
They came up with a very interesting
and unusual idea.
Usually, a test drive is held
for cars.
So, this test drive
was proposed to be held for chairs.
Can you imagine?
There was a screen on the Internet
on Yandex
when a young person
sits in a chair
and rides on it.
There is an inscription
Test Drive Chair.
What did they propose?
They proposed to order a chair
and try to sit on it.
They brought a chair and left it for three days.
Of course, most often expensive chairs
are ordered by the management.
The company's manager,
having sat in a good chair,
felt its convenience,
and offered money to buy this chair.
You know, the program worked
absolutely great.
Firstly,
of all the chairs
they offered
for a test drive
for several days,
almost 70% ended up being sold.
The result was amazing.
This program was paid
by such an MDF fund.
The company itself
did not have enough money
to pay for the chair.
The head company, the manufacturer,
added money because the idea
was very interesting
and got a good response.
Then it was copied by other companies.
This is an example.
I recommend such funds to be created,
but to discuss the conditions on the shore.
Dear colleagues,
I would like to discuss
one more point.
It is the development of relations
with key clients
Loyalty program is a talk of tongues now.
Many people talk about it,
but unfortunately, not many do.
Why do we need it?
Our clients are not only
our buyers.
In fact, they are business partners.
They help us to do our business.
We help them to earn money.
Why not become partners?
When a company
feels like a partner,
there is less risk
of losing a client,
and less chance
of losing a partner.
That is why
Loyalty programs are so popular
now.
I want to give you an example
of a developed loyalty program
that we developed
and implemented
within the framework of our company.
The company operates
on the elite alcohol market,
but it does not matter.
In fact, in this program
you can find all the necessary
information and materials.
You can take the main sections
and customize the content
according to your company.
You can leave the main sections
as they are.
Each of them is important
for working with key clients.
I will comment on the loyalty program
that we developed.
The first part of the loyalty program
is financial support.
We should not forget
that intermediaries
earn money.
Financial support is the first thing
they should pay attention to.
What do we offer them?
We offer an exclusive system of discounts
for each client.
For example,
if a delivery is very expensive
and a partner in Krasnoyarsk region
needs to deliver goods
to the regions
with rare periods of navigation,
it is an additional expense.
If we can help
we create an exclusive program
and offer
discounts.
The second part is payment
for access to the network.
We understand that
if we need to enter a network store,
there is an entrance ticket.
Our company offers
access to the network
of products
provided
that it will be
agreed upon.
The third part
is financial support.
We offer advertising support
for various programs.
If a part of the funds
is paid by the intermediary,
if you do everything
for the intermediary,
it will not be a loyalty program,
but a permanent sponsorship.
The intermediary should feel
himself as an active part
and be responsible for the result
and should contribute
to the promotion.
Another part
of financial support
is the purchase of additional equipment,
such as cabinets,
refrigerators,
and display cases.
This equipment
can be included
as part of the payment
for access to the trading points
or instead of it.
Here you can
consider different options.
This is all
about financial support.
The next part
is information support.
Information is not
what we need
when making management decisions.
We gather information,
of course.
We have analysts
who constantly gather information
about the market,
the information from the industry press,
we conduct various researches,
evaluate competitors,
consider the dynamics of the market,
we do a lot of work.
Why can't we
share this information
with our key partners?
Of course, we can do it.
We do it anyway
and the additional service
will be free for us.
We offer
a selection of this information
and its distribution
so that they can
make their management decisions
in our market.
The next part
of the loyalty program
is advertising materials.
Advertising materials
are catalogues, leaflets,
souvenir products,
encyclopedias of drinks
that we made
in a multimedia version.
Everything that helps
to present our product
to our clients.
What I would like to say here is that
if you pay for catalogues
and send them to your clients,
think about
how to spend
your money more effectively.
For example,
you can embed information
into the catalog of your client.
I will explain why.
Imagine that a sales representative
goes to a sales point
to offer your product
to your client.
He has a big portfolio
with documents,
his own catalog of the company,
and he has 15 more companies
that he sells
and he has to carry all catalogues.
Most often he just throws them away.
He does not carry them with him.
If he does not offer them,
your product is not sold.
That's it.
When you pay
for individual leaflets
of your client
and place your product there,
be sure that he will
take this catalog with him
and offer it.
At least, your client will see your product
and there will be a reason
to order it.
The next part of the loyalty program
is the offer of help from our specialists.
What do I mean?
I mean consulting,
that is, training in goods,
training in logistics,
for example, the implementation of business processes
that we have already implemented in our company,
we help to implement in the company of competitors.
We have already gone this way,
we have seen mistakes,
we have seen additional subtleties,
points that need to be taken into account.
We can share our experience
with our colleagues
and build the right business processes
in their business.
This helps a lot and makes the business
more profitable, more optimal.
Therefore, as a program,
it is recommended to offer
such services.
The next block is joint shares
and joint projects.
What can be offered here?
When we feel like partners,
when we have some kind of joint activity
within the framework of these joint projects,
we have developed a trading brand
in which several participants,
several key clients were invested.
We developed it together,
we promoted it together to the market.
This united us as a group of companies
that bring this product to the market.
This made us partners
and does not allow it to fall apart
under certain circumstances.
Next, it is joint participation
in exhibitions,
joint participation in sponsorship projects.
Maybe even on the client's territory,
when you yourself
offer him participation
in this sponsorship project,
provided that, of course,
the intermediary company
also participates there independently.
Also, as a joint share,
you can offer a product presentation
for partner clients.
That is, your people
go to the intermediary's territory,
where a certain number of clients
are gathered
and a presentation is held.
You can hold such presentations
with the participation of suppliers
whom you attract
to this activity,
which greatly increases
the image of the company in the eyes of the client
and helps him to sell it,
which is also very important.
The next point is the training
that we can offer.
We offer a list of trainings
that we can hold at the client's company.
Naturally, we do not ask
for any payment for this.
This is within the framework of the loyalty program.
The next section is
demo equipment.
What can we offer them
as part of the demonstration?
These are free samples of the product,
various miniatures,
that is, a product in a minimal version.
This is a souvenir product.
This is the same encyclopedia of drinks
that I told you about.
That is, a catalog of products
in a multimedia version.
Everything that will help them
make the presentation of your product
more comfortable,
more popular.
And two more points,
two sections that we included.
This is Internet support.
We told our partners,
told them about the companies
we work with,
reflected the results of various competitions,
various promotions.
The profile of our partner
was always posted on our website.
This is additional advertising.
And one more point,
which was also recorded in the loyalty program,
is various competitions.
Funny, funny,
but helping to unite
in the interests of the company.
This is a competition for the best showroom,
a competition for the best joke.
We had a competition
for the best secretary of the referent.
We called companies
and evaluated
how they meet the client,
how they talk to him.
A lot of employees participated.
This is a competition for a children's drawing,
which, in general,
probably dates back to Soviet times,
but does not lose its relevance,
despite the vision of the world
through the eyes of children.
This unites us,
because it gives us
a positive charge of emotions.
We also posted
very interesting promotions,
which were held in certain companies,
and even not in our industry,
as a source of ideas,
so that you could see
where and what could be done,
what to look up, what to adopt,
what experience to use.
We offered this not only to key clients,
but also to selected clients.
This is a very important point,
because the company does not have enough resources
to provide such a list of services
to each client.
Moreover, an exclusive client
should feel his exclusivity.
By offering such a program,
you let him feel it.
You make it
your partner,
your friend,
and, therefore,
you allow the client
to leave you for another
competitor, for another company.
I also want to offer you
a table in your lecture material,
where you will find
a rating of various promotions
on incentives.
There are percentages,
how many percent
the sales volume increases.
Some promotions have a very long
period of time, a very long
run in figures,
because I collected statistics
from different industries,
from different sources,
from different markets.
Therefore, there is a minimum and a maximum,
which I personally observed.
Maybe you will correct this table
according to your database
and you will have a ready-made database
inside the company,
where you will note
how much and how much
your sales have grown
during a certain promotion.
I would like to say a few words
about merchandising, literally a couple.
In your lecture materials
there will be a more detailed
material on merchandising,
the development of the
merchandising standard
for the company will be considered,
which is very important
if your product is presented on the shelves.
We will talk about the main points.
I would like to focus on the fact
that merchandising is
selling art,
and in general it is a competent,
clear and correct spread
according to all the main rules
of merchandising.
Such a spread allows
to increase the turnover,
as I said, from 80 to 300%.
But before moving
to the rules themselves,
I would like to focus on the goals,
because the goals are the first thing
that we determine.
I would like to focus on the goals
of merchandising manufacturers
and the goals of merchandising sellers,
that is, the selling point.
I would like to emphasize your attention
that these are different goals
and you must take into account
the goals of the selling point
when you come to it
and offer your standard.
You need to understand what they want.
Let's see.
The goals of the manufacturer.
Of course, increasing the turnover
and volume of sales of your own product.
If you pay attention
to the goals of the seller,
then there is an increase
in the turnover of the store in general.
It does not matter to him
whether your product is increasing
or someone else's,
the main thing for him is
that the turnover of the store
becomes larger.
The next goal of the manufacturer
is to attract attention
to his own assortment,
to his own trademark.
And this is understandable
because the seller says
that it is important for him
to optimize the assortment of the store in general,
because the store provides a service
for selecting an assortment,
and not the only product
that the buyer needs to present.
The main thing is that the buyer
came and found everything he needs
in this selling point.
Therefore, he will not pay
much attention to your product.
The next goal of the manufacturer
is to create a competitive advantage of the product.
What do we see in the seller?
Of course, the creation of a competitive advantage
of the store.
For example, there is a wider assortment,
or there are lower prices,
or there is a very convenient parking,
or there is a complex with a store,
a cafe and an entertainment center.
That is, the seller needs
a competitive advantage of the store in general,
and we need
a competitive advantage of our product.
Here our goals do not coincide.
The next point is
to create an attachment to the trading mark,
says the manufacturer,
to our trading mark.
What does the seller say?
He just needs an optimal assortment
of well-known brands
that will be visited by certain buyers.
He does not care about
an attachment to a particular brand,
he cares about an attachment
to a package of well-known brands.
The next goal of the manufacturer
is, of course, to avoid a situation
when the product is not in the trading point.
Because when your product is not there,
the buyer just switches
to another trading mark.
For the store, of course, it is also important
that the full assortment is present,
but if there is no your product,
then they will put another one.
In general, there will be no problems.
Therefore, here you yourself must make sure
that your product is present in the trading point.
Well, the next one is to form an attachment
to the positive image of the manufacturer.
Says the manufacturer,
it is important for me to be well perceived.
And what does the store say?
The store says that it is important
for the store to be perceived in general,
positively,
so that there are flexible conditions,
for example, in terms of working time,
for example, up to the last buyer,
or something like that.
That is, the store is naturally important
in general,
and our trading mark is important to us.
And these things need to be taken into account
when we develop the standard of merchandising
and offer our product
to the trading point.
Let's consider the main tasks
of the company's merchandising.
What should you pay attention to
when you develop a standard
or when you determine the product schedule?
What should you take into account?
The first is the minimum set
of assortment positions,
or they also call it SKU.
Roughly speaking, one unit of the assortment.
That is, how many of you
should have the layout of this assortment
so that your layout
looks high-quality and good.
The next task
is the place where your product is placed.
You must determine the category
in which department your product is placed
and in which place of the store.
The next task
is the number of additional sales places.
This is very important
because additional sales places
give the opportunity
for additional acquaintance with your product.
And, of course,
your most popular product is placed there,
which greatly increases sales.
You must determine in advance
where it is possible to place additional places.
Next, you must determine
the number of SKU,
how many assortment units
of the product are placed
and the order of their placement.
For example, from light to dark,
from the lowest price to the highest,
from the lowest fat to the highest,
and so on.
That is, the order can be different
depending on the product,
if the product is placed from light to dark,
or a combination of colors,
or a joint purchase.
That is, the rules can be different,
there are a lot of them,
but you must immediately
determine by standards
what rules you set this product.
The next point is the number of positions
or they also call it facing.
Look, an assortment is an assortment unit.
For example, you decided
that you will put
three office chairs,
but these three office chairs
can be repeated, right?
And SKU will be three,
because there are three different types.
And facing is how many chairs there will be.
Roughly speaking,
if you put each SKU in two positions,
then the facing will be equal to six.
The next thing to determine
is the product supply
or the minimum load.
The product supply should be
such that it is constantly present
on the shelf of the store,
taking into account that it leaves
this shelf.
That is, a certain supply
should always be in the store.
The next point is positioning
the price relative to the competitors.
That is, you must immediately determine
what price category your product is in,
because different price categories
are distributed differently,
and actually where this product
will be located,
next to which competitors,
and what is the recommended price
for this product, it is different.
Therefore, we must clearly determine
what the price will be for us.
The next point, which is often determined
by very famous manufacturers,
is the share relative to the competitors
of your product.
For example, you say that the share
of our office chairs should be 50%
relative to competitors,
that is, half of the category should be
occupied by us.
This is, of course, an ambitious goal,
but nevertheless, such goals are set
and there are two more points
that we must talk about.
This is, of course, the placement of price tags.
A clear and competent design
and where they are placed.
In some stores there are standards
for price tags, and this is great,
but in some stores they simply
do not comply, so where and how
we place them must be necessarily
agreed upon in the standard of merchandising.
And the last point is the schedule itself.
That is, we must draw out how,
where and why our product is,
so that the merchandiser does not invent
and do not compose and do not fantasize
how to put it,
how it will be better, how it will be worse.
We must give him a clear instruction
so that he does not touch it.
Only this will ensure you
increased sales and efficiency
of this tool.
All the basic rules of merchandising
will be described in your lecture material,
which will help you to form
the right schedule
and the standard of merchandising.
There are three groups of these rules.
This is the location, presentation
and stock.
You can decode all of them there,
look at them,
determine the rules of the layout
and, in fact,
create your own standard of merchandising
according to the image and likeness.
And about the location itself,
I would like to say a few more words
and show you the hot and cold
zones in the store
to understand where you can
put the products and where not.
Here is the image.
You can see that
all 100% of the products
that enter the store
only 90% of them
are in the first square.
The rest 10% take what they need
and go to the checkout or return
after leaving the store.
Then, during the movement,
only 70% pass.
The rest 20% have already taken
the product and went to the checkout.
Only 50% pass.
And at the end of the store,
that is, the entire cycle of the store
only 30%.
You see how the number of buyers
that pass the whole hall decreases.
This, of course, reduces
the efficiency of sales.
And that square where the buyer
is only 30% is the lower left square.
It is considered the most
ineffective, it is considered
the cold zone of the store.
If your product is located in this zone,
then you will not be surprised
why your sales are so small.
How to avoid this?
You can highlight something bright,
you can put large figures,
additional lighting,
any bright things that will attract
the attention of the buyer
and make them go further.
Remember the location of supermarkets.
In this department, most often,
there is bread and, moreover, it is baked there.
The smell, the aroma of bread
makes us go there
like Pavlov's dog.
It makes us go through
most of the store.
That is why departments are placed
in this way.
Also, on the slide you have
the rules of the golden triangle.
The location of the golden triangle
consists of three parts.
The first is the entrance,
the second point is the cash desk
and the third point is the department
that is most often visited by
the buyer.
It is a department of milk and meat.
Daily products are sold there
that the buyer
has come for.
If you are a manufacturer,
your task is to get into
the zone of the golden triangle
because when you get into
the zone, your sales
increase by at least 80%.
Most often, the buyers
pass there.
And the task of the store itself
is to make the most popular
departments, cash desk and entrance
at a distance.
Thus, it expands the field
of active activity of the buyers
and the zone of active purchases.
Well,
let's move on to the stimulation
of end users.
Not all companies
are engaged in this.
Nevertheless,
it is an expensive process,
but it is very necessary
because the client can leave us
to other intermediaries
if our discount does not suit him.
And end users are more loyal.
If they liked our products,
they will return to us
and buy from us
and provide us with
this or that income.
So, when we stimulate
end users,
the main goal is, of course,
to increase the volume of sales.
But you can increase the volume of sales
according to the scheme.
At least,
the increase of sales
is divided into two parts
loyalty and trial purchases.
Trial purchases are more
related to the new product,
and loyalty is related to the existing product,
to the maintenance of the reliability
and loyalty of our product.
These two groups are divided
into goals.
Additionally, trial purchases
are divided into two parts
the availability of the product,
that is, the person should want to buy it,
and availability,
he should find a place where it is sold.
And loyalty is divided into three parts
the frequency of purchase,
how often they buy,
adherence,
do they buy our brand all the time,
and the possibility
or frequency of switching
from the brand of competitors
to our brand.
All these five goals
are described in the lecture material.
Each of the possible goals
is described in more detail
when designing
and developing
the incentive program
for end users.
We will see
how to plan
these actions correctly.
Planning consists
of three main steps.
The first is to determine
the target audience.
We need to understand
who we are targeting,
who are its participants.
There are several criteria
that help the target audience
to determine the end users.
The three main groups
are regional criteria,
the lifestyle of consumers,
and demographic criteria.
In terms of frequency of use,
I can tell you
that demographic criteria
are most often used
gender,
education level.
The second place
is for regional criteria,
location, climate.
It is very important
for some products.
The third place
is for the lifestyle of consumers.
These criteria are more sociological,
that's why they are used less often.
To determine
the target audience,
we need specialists,
psychologists,
and other experts.
When we determined the target audience,
we described it.
For example,
the target audience
of polyvitamins
is women
between 25 and 45 years old,
who have a family,
at least one child,
who work,
who have
a higher level
of higher or middle
special education,
who live
in cities
with a population
of at least 200,000 people.
Here is a segmentation
of vitamins consumption.
Of course,
all other categories,
women or men,
can also consume vitamins,
but we, remember,
select the target audience,
who buy the most.
Here is the target audience.
The clearer your segmentation,
the more competently you will develop
the promotion program.
Remember, skeletons
are yogurts aimed
at the group of teenagers
between 12 and 14 years old.
The positioning was very clear.
It was this
that gave such success to this product.
Yes, parents did not like
this product, because
it was ridiculous and funny,
or maybe it was unpleasant for someone,
but the skeleton
achieved its target audience,
and their sales were just amazing.
Therefore,
here is very important,
that is, the target audience
is the determining factor of success.
The second step we take
is the time of holding.
We determine how long
the promotion will take.
It can be a long-term promotion,
or a seasonal promotion,
or regular events,
or periodic events.
What does it mean?
It can be a holiday event,
and we determine
whether it is short-term,
medium-term,
and long-term.
It can be more than one year.
I will say that short-term events
are more effective than long-term.
Why?
When we hold a promotion program
and stimulate it,
the effect is fast.
Sales go up quickly,
and we see the result right away,
because we make our customers
or consumers act immediately.
The duration of the action
is limited by the program.
And when the program is long-term,
there is such a postponement effect.
The program is still going on for a long time.
I will come later, I will do it later,
I will buy it later,
while I have this, while I have that.
The program is not in peak form.
It is slightly increasing,
and it is at this level.
You get the feeling
that you spend a lot,
but you do not have the effect.
Therefore,
short-term promotions
work more effectively
and more purposefully
for end consumers.
The third point
that we must determine
is the budget restrictions.
The budget is offered in different ways,
developed in different ways.
Here are the main methods
of budgeting.
The first is the percentage of sales.
When we say that we have a sales volume
and such a percentage,
for example, 3 or 5%,
we can take it on a stimulus program.
Yes, this is an option,
because it depends on the turnover,
it is tied clearly,
and we will not spend more than necessary.
The second option is possible.
You can take from the turnover,
and you take from the additional turnover.
How much you earn in addition,
or rather from the profit.
This is also a correct option,
because it is important for the owner
how much additional money he will receive,
and not just stimulate
his end consumers.
The next point is planning for goals.
When you set goals,
determine the share that you need,
and then form a budget,
and then approve this budget.
Planning for goals is the most correct
option for planning,
but of course you need to calculate
and not go into losses.
If we planned for goals
that we need to spend certain amounts,
it does not mean
that the company should work in losses.
The marketer should count
both sides of the coin,
both the side of spending and the side of income.
Otherwise, the stock will not be effective,
and therefore it will not be a stimulus stock.
The next two points
that can be taken into account
are the comparison with the industry costs.
You know approximately
how much is spent on advertising.
For example,
the company spends $ 2 million
on advertising of washing powder.
And you, of course,
based on this,
understand that if you spend $ 1.5 million,
then there will be no effect.
If you spend $ 2.5 million,
there will probably be a greater effect.
But $ 2.5 million is an average amount
that you need to spend
to ensure such fame.
That is,
average costs of advertising are compared.
They are in the sources of information
in the journal Praktika.
Advertising is constantly published there.
The next point
that can be taken into account
is the comparison with competitors.
Look what competitors do.
After all, we know how much advertising costs
in the media, how much it costs to hold
promotions, how much it costs to develop a video,
and so on.
We know all these estimates.
Seeing what competitors do,
you can safely calculate
how much they spend.
And if you position yourself next to them,
then you can determine
a similar amount or a little more,
depending on what goals you have
for advertising.
There is also one method,
the most ineffective,
for residual funds.
Usually, there are no such funds.
Therefore, this method
is the most ineffective
and does not usually give results.
I would like to draw your attention
to the fact that in your lecture material
the rules and techniques of creating ideas
will be voiced and marked.
The most basic rules
that are used in the development of various promotions.
These are the magic numbers
when we say
all goods for 10 rubles
or two for the price of one, and so on.
The next is crisis sales.
Remember the company Zhe.
The store Zhe, which says
that the sale has been going on for 2-3 years
and could not be sold.
You announce this
and all customers come to you
because they think you are closing.
Next is a gift for purchase.
This is another idea
that is very often emulated and used
because everyone likes to receive gifts.
What else
would I like to draw your attention to?
When you think about the idea of a promotion,
pay attention to the topics
that are interesting to everyone.
What topics are interesting to everyone?
Cars, sports,
war, sex,
children,
animals,
entertainment, food.
Everything that concerns our life,
everything that guides us in one way or another.
You can take all these topics
as an idea for a promotion.
Because everything that concerns
our life,
everything that passes through feelings,
through emotions,
works very well.
You can apply various dual meanings
or gossips.
For example, a discount is equal to the number of years.
Or today there will be such a discount,
what is the number in the yard today?
Then everyone will wait
until the end of the month,
because there will be a discount.
You can apply elements
of the corporate style.
For example, if a company
did such a promotion,
everyone who comes in red will get a 10% discount.
You can develop the existing concept.
For example, you already have a discount card,
but you continue to work with it
and tell everyone who comes today
with a discount card,
double the discount,
not the one that is indicated on the card.
New well-taken care of the old
is again a recommendation.
Make databases and look at them
which promotions work best for you.
I would like to offer you
another method.
This is an assessment of the creative idea of the promotion.
There are the main criteria
on which you can recheck yourself.
Have you taken into account everything?
Have you worked out all the criteria
when you thought about the idea of your promotion?
It is evaluated on a 10-point scale
and then the final score is drawn.
But the final score is not as important
as the criteria that will earn
the lowest points in your assessment.
The criteria that will earn
the lowest points in your assessment
mean that they are not worked out
and you need to do something
with them.
This is a signal that the promotion
is not fully thought out.
What criteria are there?
Of course,
the compliance of the trademark.
We look at how your idea
complies with the trademark.
If your product is exclusive
and very expensive,
then you should not start a sale.
The idea is unique.
It's great when you get a high score.
But most often, ideas are repeated.
However, if you have something interesting,
such as an office test drive,
this idea deserves a high score.
Try to come up with something of your own.
Or give the agency the opportunity to do it.
The next criterion is the ability to implement it in practice.
You can come up with anything.
For example, a flight to the moon.
But how much can it be implemented?
This is a question.
You can come up with a lot of ideas.
But how much can it be implemented?
This is a question.
Therefore, the idea should be realistic.
The relevance of the idea.
Fashion for certain things.
It is advisable to follow the fashion.
For example, mobile marketing
is very relevant now.
You can hold promotions
on your mobile phone,
which work very well.
Or with the introduction of new technologies.
Effectiveness.
Your offer should be interesting to buyers.
It should satisfy their needs.
Because if they are interested,
no matter what the promotion is,
they will not participate in it.
The next two criteria are simplicity and availability.
Simplicity.
This is how clear the conditions are.
So that you don't have this.
Go to the forest, look for the tenth stump,
find a coupon,
bring it to the fourth store
after the fifth turn, and so on.
The more difficult the conditions of the promotion,
the more likely
your promotion will not be attended.
And availability.
How easy it is to participate in your promotion.
It should be a shopping mall nearby.
So that a person can come,
find where the promotion takes place,
where the prizes are given, and so on.
The next criteria is
visibility for the target audience.
It is noticeable
and it is good when it coincides
with the already held
advertising campaigns.
It is within the general concept.
Not just one promotion,
but within the general concept.
Then its effectiveness increases many times.
The next criteria are
the idea should be in line
with all elements of marketing
and be attractive to the target audience.
You also evaluate
on a ten-point scale.
And the reward for the participants
is attractive and useful.
They need this product.
It's not just some kind of trifle
that a person will throw out
on the street.
So, you can evaluate your idea
and see what points
you need to improve.
What should you pay attention to
when developing a promotion?
Of course, the development of a scenario.
This is the main document
that will allow you to hold a promotion
without a hitch and a stump.
That is, do not forget anything
that is particularly important
for the promotion
to be successful and effective.
There are six main sections
of a promotion.
The first one is, of course,
a detailed description of the mechanics.
What do you want to get
from this promotion?
How should this promotion go?
What should your buyer do
to get a prize?
What is the prize?
Where will it be issued?
In what quantity?
All of this must be written down.
This is probably the most important thing
to do in the first place.
Because the budget of your promotion
will depend on this.
The next thing to do is to choose
a place of holding.
Where do you hold it?
In what trading points?
Or somewhere else?
It is important to choose
a place of holding
and decide whether
the trading points
will agree to hold this promotion
The next main thing
to consider is working with the promotion staff.
You need to take this
very seriously, because the result
of your promotion depends on the staff.
If you give all of this to the agency
for a ransom and do not
take part in this,
you risk that your promotion staff
will not be ready for the promotion,
will not understand what the product is,
what the purpose of the promotion is,
and, most importantly, what you need to achieve.
As a result, the money spent
will go nowhere.
So be sure to participate
in the selection of the promotion staff
and in their preparation.
The next thing is preparation for the event.
You have already scheduled it,
you have already recruited everyone.
Now you need to check if everything is ready.
Do the sales managers know
that the product needs to be brought?
Do the trading points know
that they are holding a promotion?
Do the promotion staff know everything?
Are there enough prizes?
All these points must be checked
and calculated.
And once again,
I remind everyone that
at some point the promotion starts
so that everyone is ready.
The next thing is the
implementation of the event.
Here I have one recommendation for you.
We have a strict control.
In Russia, the order to become a management
is a reason for reflection.
Therefore, always check
if everything goes well.
If there is no control,
I assure you that there will be
more mistakes than enough.
Because even when the control is in place,
this happens.
But there you can at least
react quickly.
If you do not control,
the results of the promotion will be depressing,
and you will not be able to fix anything.
Therefore, be sure to control
and correct the situation
during the promotion.
And the next point is
the action after the promotion.
That is, the analysis of efficiency.
Here you must calculate
whether you spent money in vain,
whether you did everything right,
what were the calculations or problems.
In the lecture material,
you will have an example of a promotion report
that you can use in your work.
What mistakes are most often
when holding a promotion?
I counted 17 of them.
Maybe you will add something to my list.
What happened
in practice?
The first mistake is the lack of planning.
When a sales manager comes to us
and says,
urgently, I am being taken out of the store,
let's do some promotion quickly.
That is, it was necessary to do everything yesterday.
A hurry begins.
We start doing something without planning.
This is a strategy of
locking holes, which we have already talked about today.
And as a result, the promotion
turns out so-so.
That is, something, of course, comes out.
We have a lot of managers with time and resources.
But it could have turned out much better
if everything was according to plan.
Therefore, do not take literally
the words of managers.
Work according to your plan.
Only then will there be order.
The next point is poor staff preparation.
This is what I was talking about.
They did not control,
let's say,
the information of the staff.
That is, not everyone knows about the promotion.
Who needs to know this?
Moreover, the promotional staff
cannot link two words about your product,
which is completely unacceptable.
Theft.
In general, theft, of course,
is probably a common problem in Russia.
I don't know.
Promoters, of course,
even exchange prizes.
Sometimes, when several promotions are held in the trading point,
they start exchanging prizes.
This is not their hobby.
Naturally, you cannot prevent
100% theft of your souvenirs,
prizes, gifts, and so on.
But by giving a decent payment to the promoter
and putting the case under clear control,
that is, registration of all the gifts,
you at least reduce this percentage.
I do not enjoy illusions
that you can completely eradicate this problem.
But at least reduce the losses.
This is also useful.
The next is the appearance of the promoters.
What usually happens?
Usually, t-shirts, caps of corporate color
and that's it.
They are all in the same color.
That's all.
We stop at this.
Because the appearance of the promoter is very important.
Not only that,
in ordinary t-shirts and caps
he is not highlighted from the crowd,
he is simply not seen
and does not participate in the promotion.
Secondly,
when saving money,
we simply shift
the positioning of our product.
We do not highlight it,
we do not show all its pros and cons.
The appearance of the promoters is especially important.
And the suit,
and his own hairstyle,
and his manner of keeping himself.
This is all very important.
Therefore, pay attention to this.
There were cases when
there was an ad
for elite alcohol.
And there the girls were in gorgeous dresses,
of a wonderful look,
but they saved on hairstyles
and the image was violated.
Therefore,
if you invest money,
invest it all,
so that the integrity of the image is not violated.
Then the effect will be completely different
from your promotion.
The next point is the lack of a connecting idea.
And this is just a problem of looting holes.
We act not within the framework
of the general marketing program,
but we act simply by the method of a push.
The problem has arisen,
it must be solved.
The problem has arisen, we solve it again.
But the connecting idea does not work.
Therefore, everyone is responsible for the promotion.
And if everything was according to plan,
everything was interconnected,
the synergy would be much higher.
The next mistake in determining the target audience.
We have already talked about this in advertising.
Here, the same thing.
We have wrongly determined the target audience.
We did not get it easily
and did not get such an effect.
The lack of clear reports.
This is also one of the disadvantages.
And the company itself is to blame for this.
The company itself must think through the reporting system.
After all, it needs efficiency.
We spend money, not someone else.
Therefore, it is in our interests
to make a reporting system
and to follow it clearly
so that all the reporting is filled.
Then we can calculate the effectiveness of the promotion.
Poor organization of regional promotions.
Probably, this is a common problem.
Because we cannot control,
we cannot track.
Recommendations should be given to agency payments.
Networks that have
a head office in central cities
and their branches
in different cities of the Russian Federation.
At least they have gained experience
in holding such promotions.
And they will do it more professionally
than the manager in the places.
And it is not even clear
whether these managers are there or not.
Therefore, it is better to trust professionals.
Mistake in setting the target of the promotion companies.
We say that we need to introduce a new product.
We leave the goal of increasing the volume of sales.
This is a mistake.
When we introduce a new product,
it is a familiarization with the product.
The goal was set incorrectly,
the mechanics were thought out incorrectly.
As a result, the promotion did not work.
That's all.
Next.
Insufficient allocation of funds for holding promotions.
We regret money.
We say, let's save it,
here we will cut, there we will cut.
As a result, the cut promotion is worth nothing.
A clear opinion has formed.
If you need to hold something,
do it as it should be.
Better.
If you want to save,
it is better not to do it at all.
At least the money will remain.
And so you will spend money,
and you will not achieve the result.
The lack of standard documentation.
It intersects a little with the accounting system.
The lack of standard documentation
implies additional costs for you.
If you had standard accounting,
you would have spent
every penny
for the documentation.
If you do not have it,
you have to think about
spending your resources
to make this documentation.
The too complicated
mechanics of holding promotions.
We said that
you can't do complicated mechanics.
If it is not clear, it will not work.
The lack of centers for giving out prizes.
Many clients are offended
that they should get a prize,
or the prize is not given
in the center of the prizes.
Or you have to go very far
to the center of the prizes.
This creates a negative feeling
for your clients.
If you do not have the opportunity
to provide with prizes,
then it is better to replace the prizes
or think about another action.
Because the negative is not forgotten.
It is deposited on your product,
even if it is very good.
The program can fall out
of the general positioning of the trademark.
I gave an example.
The reason for the disregard
of the goals is repeated.
If the product is exclusive,
do not sell it.
This is an absolute disregard.
There are many other examples.
The next mistake is wrong.
The choice of promotion channels.
We did not ask our clients
where they get the information from.
As a result,
this information did not reach them.
We posted the announcement
in one place,
and our clients walk
on the other road.
The promotion did not work.
The next mistake is the lack
of information about the promotion.
The consumer does not know
what the promotion is.
This happens in companies
that hold promotions
for their customers.
Sales managers forget
to tell that the promotion is held.
As a result,
the first mistake is the lack of information.
The second mistake is the lack of feedback.
Do the clients participate?
If not, why?
This is the last mistake.
The third mistake is the lack
of goods at the trading points.
Imagine that the promotion was developed,
the script was prepared,
the money was paid,
but the sales manager forgot
the goods at the trading points.
The sales manager is not a sales manager.
He is a sales manager.
The sales manager forgot
the goods at the trading points.
The promotion failed.
We should fire such managers.
We should fire those who did not control
that the manager remembered
that the manager had a lot of work.
He needs to sell.
If the marketing manager is responsible
for the promotion,
he should control
that everyone did what was necessary.
Be sure to control.
The most offensive thing happens
when the promotion fails
because of such a reason.
We have seen the mistakes
that can happen.
I want to draw your attention
to some promotions
that I have given as an example.
The source of information
is btl.ru.
There are analyses
of various promotions.
I would like to give
the most successful ones.
The first promotion
is called Do not miss the moment.
It was held with Sony Ericsson mobile phone.
It is called Cameraphone.
The meaning of the phone
is that you press the button
and you can take 9 photos at once.
You can take photos
in different ways
and get interesting shots.
That is why the promotion
is called Do not miss the moment.
The promotion was held in two stages.
The first one was held
near the trading points
and the girls were taking photos
with the camera of the buyers
who came to the trading points.
Then the photos were posted
on the website.
The people who took the photos
were offered to visit the website
and download the photos.
The photos were very interesting
and the children were interested
in getting on the plane.
In general, they were allowed
to use the mobile phone.
The second part of the promotion
was more interesting.
In St. Petersburg and Moscow
8 high-rise business centers
were chosen.
The girls were hired
as promoters.
They wore parachutes
and went down the stairs
from the roof of the business center.
There were 4 sides of the business center
and each side
was going down the girl's way.
Imagine that you are sitting
on the 30th floor
and you are a girl.
How do you feel?
I can tell you that
the business centers were closed
that day.
The girls were advertising
their mobile phones,
taking photos
of the faces of the surprised people
who were in the business centers.
In general,
this company was a sensation.
It cost a lot of money.
It cost 80,000 dollars.
I want to say that
it was also given
a special license
because it was impossible
not to write about it.
In addition,
the mobile phones
were sold in the business centers.
The promotion was very interesting
and unusual in its own way.
The next promotion
was held in Nizhny Novgorod
called Autofotomoyka.
It was organized by Tele2,
a mobile operator.
They wanted to expand
their presence in the market.
Everyone who came to the gas station
was offered
to buy a SIM card
of Tele2.
The SIM card cost 100 rubles.
When the check was issued,
two girls of a fairly
sexual appearance
washed the windshield
for free of the person
who bought the card.
I want to say that
such a promotion was in great demand.
Everyone was very interested.
In 5 days,
more than 2,000 customers
used this service.
The question is
who stayed with this operator.
I hope that they stayed.
The promotion was not so expensive.
It was discussed for a long time.
It was interesting.
This is another promotion
that I would like to tell you about.
It was organized by Sveznoi.
In Novosibirsk,
it was called the Orange Revolution.
It was not expensive.
It was a very small expense.
It was very interesting
and intriguing.
It was held in 4 days.
The first day
was in 2005.
In the summer,
many dogs
were walking on the streets
in orange suits.
Imagine that you go out
and the whole city is in orange suits.
No one understands what is going on.
Everyone starts to discuss
what kind of dogs are walking.
Dogs were walking in orange suits
for 2 days.
Then they disappeared.
The next kind of announcement
appeared on the poles.
A dog in an orange suit disappeared.
Who knows where the dog is,
please contact us.
All the poles of the city
started to discuss.
Radio channels were connected.
Local people started to discuss
what kind of dogs are walking.
Where did they come from?
What do they know?
It was very interesting.
Then the next day
orange wallets
appeared on the streets.
People started to pick them up.
Inside the wallet
there was an invitation
to open a store.
People understood
that this store
was a joint venture.
It was an interesting event.
The next day
the store was opened.
Everyone who found
an orange wallet
came to the store
and gave a T-shirt
with the inscription
The most honest person in the city.
Orange oranges were given
to everyone who came
to the store.
The number of people
who came to the store
was 30.
It was a very interesting event.
It was not very expensive.
People discussed it for a long time.
I would like to tell you
that if you need
an interesting idea,
I recommend you
to contact the agency
which specializes in this.
They are doing it very well.
Well,
another tool is
direct marketing.
It is a direct mail
or e-mail message
which we use
to communicate
with our clients.
It is called direct marketing
because it is a direct personal
message to our client.
It works very effectively
if the strategy is planned,
if it is not a one-time event
which we planned
to do once and forgot about it.
Direct marketing events
allow to maintain the database
in the current state constantly,
to get feedback from the client,
to make a confidential offer,
to communicate with the client,
to identify the claims,
to fix and eliminate them.
It is a very large field
for work
which allows to achieve
the personalization we are talking about.
Although,
some people think
that it is a thing of the past,
however,
a direct mail message
is a very good result
in terms of its value.
What are the disadvantages?
First of all,
not everyone reads it.
The effectiveness of the message
if it is 3-6%
is very good.
As I said,
the cost-benefit ratio
is very good.
Therefore,
if you receive a direct message
after sending it,
it is a great result.
What is the direct marketing?
First of all,
incoming calls.
What can we do
with incoming calls?
First of all,
we can tell the information
about our products.
Second,
we can switch to another product
of our client.
Third,
we can set contacts
and put them in the database.
It will be relevant
because the client contacted us himself.
We can hold some competitions
by phone or by email
among the clients
who contact us on their own.
We can also react
and work with incoming calls.
What can we do with them?
First of all,
we can make orders.
We can call the clients
and make orders.
Then,
we can set contacts,
make acquaintances,
find additional clients.
It is a good tool.
Then,
we can conduct marketing researches
and surveys.
Based on this,
we can create our own database
and make requests
for the analysis of the clients' wishes.
It is a good communication
with the current clients,
with the regular clients.
We do it regularly.
We communicate regularly
and find out the problems,
wishes, and so on.
It is a communication tool
after the event.
We can evaluate the results
and see what has worked,
what has not,
and so on.
It is a valuable source of information
that we do not always
use effectively.
I would like to tell you
about the effectiveness of direct marketing
with the table you see on the slide.
Let's talk about
postage.
If we take 100% of postage,
only 88% of them are opened.
12% are thrown out
and not even opened.
What happens to the remaining 88%?
40% are read by the person
who is not intended.
who is intended.
And 8% are thrown out again.
What does the person
who is intended do?
24% of them
are read and thrown out.
They seem uninteresting to him.
10% are put aside
and think,
I will deal with it later.
Only 6% get the answer.
And this is a very good result.
It is a very good result.
It is worse if such a percentage
is 1-2.
It means that either your base is not relevant
or your commercial offer was absolutely uninteresting
for your key client.
You have wrongly determined his wishes.
So,
by direct marketing events
you can also
read additional material
in your lecture notebook.
The main goal of the lecture notebook
is to provide a clear picture
of the main objectives
of the lecture.
The main goal of the lecture notebook
is to provide a clear picture
of the main objectives
of the lecture.
I would like to touch on the form of reporting
and the control of the event.
I would like to say that
according to the results of all planned events
a media plan is developed.
You can see its appearance on the slide
where we describe each event
and the time of the event,
the place of the event
and the budget.
Then the budget is summed up
by periods, months, quarters
as you prefer.
Why do we need such media plans?
Not only to plan and observe the plan
but also to make a political statement.
If you have a media plan
with all the budget expenses,
it is unlikely that the head
will emphasize something
to optimize the budget.
When you have a common figure,
it is easier to emphasize.
We do not know what it is spent on.
And there is a temptation to
sequester this amount.
When you have all the events clearly planned,
it is unlikely that the head
will raise his hand
to emphasize a certain amount.
Because we clearly understand
what kind of event
and what we need it for.
Therefore, I highly recommend
to make a plan and a budget
at your head.
In conclusion, we will touch
on the calculation of the promotional effectiveness
of the event.
I will tell you the basic formulas
for calculating the effectiveness.
And you will have tables in your notebooks
and there will be a task
for calculating the effectiveness
of certain actions.
Everything is clearly described
according to the formulas.
What to calculate,
what we hold the event for.
Yes, probably to increase sales,
to achieve a certain result,
to ensure the popularity of the product.
But I want to say that
the effectiveness of the event can be calculated
only by applying
to the stimulation of sales.
The effectiveness of advertising
can also be calculated, but it will not be accurate.
Because there, in addition to the economic effect,
there is a communication effect,
the number of contacts,
the increase in recognition, and so on.
You can find out all these things
only by contacting the agency
and conducting an additional survey of consumers.
Many companies simply do not go
because it is additional costs.
This can be done at least once a year
to assess the popularity
of your brand or your trading brand.
But the economic effectiveness
is the easiest
and most effective
to calculate precisely by events
on the stimulation of sales.
Here are the basic formulas.
The first formula is the formula of profitability.
Everyone knows it.
When we take the additional sales,
the amount of additional sales,
subtract the cost of the product
that we additionally sold
and the costs of the event itself
and divide it all by the costs,
you get the coefficient.
If this coefficient is less than one,
your share was loss.
If it is equal to one,
your share has passed zero.
Roughly speaking,
how much you received
and how much you spent.
But if your share
has a coefficient of more than one,
you have already worked
for the profit of the company.
Naturally, the higher the coefficient,
the better.
It can be 2, 3, 4, 5, etc.
It is ideal.
The more, the better.
The main thing is that it is more than one.
Then your share worked effectively.
And one more formula
that will help you calculate
the effectiveness of the share.
It is the definition of the share loss
in the additional product turnover.
What is the point of this calculation?
For example, you sold the product
and additionally sold 100 units
for 1,000 rubles.
Accordingly, you received
100,000 additional rubles.
But how much you spent
from this amount
should be determined.
That is, not the share of the total turnover
because the total could be sold
without the share.
But how much additional income
you spent is important.
It shows how much additional money
you earned for the owner.
And this formula works
very well and effectively.
It shows what your owner
wants to see.
This is what you calculate.
You take all the costs
that you spent on the share.
Divide it by the additional income
that you received
and multiply it by 100%.
You get a share of the costs
in the additional income.
Note, not in the total, but in the additional.
This is how you can calculate
the share.
This is a whole formula
that is described in detail
in your work materials.
You can refer to it
and, moreover,
do practical work,
do tasks
to calculate the effectiveness
of a particular share.
Dear colleagues,
today we have discussed
the main tools for promoting a product
to the market,
no matter if it is new
or a new company.
We have seen how to use
advertising tools,
how to use public communication tools,
the main practical methods
of sales promotion
aimed at both the trading link
and the end users.
We have seen how direct marketing tools
work.
And we have seen the formula
for calculating the effectiveness
of a particular share.
In your lecture materials
you can find more detailed information.
And I say goodbye to you.
I wish you success,
success in promoting
your product,
bringing new brands,
new interesting positions
to the Russian market.
All the best. Goodbye.